Combat
Combat is often a failure state. By the time the DM asks you to
punishment is ahead.
Stat Blocks
Lvl is the same as HD. An enemy has 1d6 HP per HD.
Def tells you the DC required to hit the damn thing.
Atk is usually labled like Claws 1d8. It tells you both the mode
Move is sometimes omitted, if its the same as a human. The
pursuer is 20. Move is also sometimes described by listing a comparable
Stats like Str and Int aren't usually listed unless they're significantly
Note that when the DM is trying to figure out if a monster behaves
Failure means that they act like a dumb animal.
Dis stands for disposition. If it's not listed, assume that the
fight seems lost, then flee or surrender. They'll attack you if they
An Incomplete Lists of Dispositions
Benevolent It will help you without any expectation or exchange.
Hungry It wants food and is planning to eat you. (e.g.
Greedy It wants your gold, and is planning to kill you
Guardian It will kill to protect something. It will not chase
Neutral It's not here to kill you, but it absolutely will
Scheming It will try to take advantage of you before it
Tenacious It wants to kill you and it will never flee or surrender.
This list is not exhaustive. If you meet a knight and it says "Dis
act.
Morale
If a monster fears death, it will flee rather than be destroyed.
The Two Types of Morale Checks
Oh Damn When the monsters clearly start losing, they have
Oh Fuck When the monsters have no chance to win, they
If the monsters can't flee, they'll attempt surrender.
If the players don't seem like they take prisoners, they'll keep
If you need help figuring out which of these options a monster
behave intelligently or stupidly.
If the party chases fleeing monsters, use the same Pursuit rules
9

roll initiative, your poor judgment is behind you and your
of attack and the damage.
DC to escape a slow pursuer is 12. The DC to escape a fast
creature (Climb spider).
different from 5, which is the default for all stats.
intelligently, they can resolve it with an Int check.
monster is average. Average monsters will fight until the
think they can win.
Ie.g. nobody, probably)
tiger)
to get it. (e.g. bandits)
you far from whatever it is guarding. (e.g. golem)
if you give it a reason. (e.g. average human)
resorts to violence. (e.g. rival adventurers)
(e.g. zombie)
chivalrous" you should be able to figure out how they'll
Even elementals and undead recoil from annihilation.
a 50% chance of fleeing.
automatically flee.
fighting.
would choose, make an Int check for them to see if they
that the party uses.
