Random Encounters
Every area has a local Encounter Table, which determines
who will cross you path. But to determine when this
happens, you need to roll Encounter Checks.
Every 30 minutes, roll an Encounter Check by rolling your
Encounter Die and your Recon Die simultaneously. I
recommend using a cereal bowl.
The Encounter Die
The Encounter Die is a yellow d6. Your type of encounter is
based on what it shows.
1 Active Encounter
2 Passive Encounter
3 Indirect Encounter
4-6 Depletion
An Active Encounter is one that forces the party to engage.
In a dungeon, this is usually a hostile creature that wants to
kill you.
A Passive Encounter is one that gives you the option of
engaging. In a dungeon, this is usually a non-hostile
creature, or a hostile creature that isn't immediately
threatening.
An Indirect Encounter is one that you can't directly engage
with. You might still be able to gain from information from
it, or it might just show you the mood of the location.
13

The Recon Die
The Recon Die is a blue d6. If you roll a 1 on your Recon Die
then you get an advantage.
If your Recon succeeds on an Active or Passive Encounter,
you gain Surprise. You can choose to engage (with the
element of surprise) or avoid the encounter altogether.
You might catch them talking to themselves and overhear
something useful (DM's discretion).
If your Recon succeeds and there is no Active or Passive
Encounter to be had, you find Footprints. These don't have
to be literal footprints--they could be slime, hair, feces,
graffiti, smells, or noises. The foot - You find traces of a
random encounter. Your DM will roll a random encounter
and describe the evidence of its passing (footprints, smells,
noises, slime, hair).
If your only illumination is candle-light or, you lose your
Recon Die and instead gain an Ambush Die, which causes
you to be surprised on a 1. If you have no light source, you
are ambushed on 1-2 on the d6.
Setting the Stage
The first sentence gives you a general encounter, such as
"1d6 goblins". If an encounter labeled as "Unique" is killed,
you will never encounter that monster again in this area.
The second sentence gives you a specific encounter, such as
"A piglet wearing a hat is tortured by 5 goblins, who believe
it to be a human baby."
The first time you roll that encounter, I recommend using
the specific encounter (unless you prefer to come up with
your own).
The subsequent times that encounter is rolled, it's up to you
to come up with the encounter. You can either come up
with something novel, or build off the previous one.
When the encounter occurs, place the enemies wherever
makes the most sense. If multiple places are tied for this
(e.g. three doors lead into this room and all lead to places
where goblins could have emerged from), then pick one
randomly.
Try not to overthink this, but at the same time, make sense.
Five goblins cannot come from the dead-end room that the
party just emerged from (unless there is a secret door in
there). If 12 ABACUS MURAL has been collapsed, then a
party S of the collapse is probably safe from the Lamb
(assuming the Lamb is trapped on the N side of the
collapse).
