FIGHTING THE LAMB
This is a tough arena to fight the lamb in. The smartest way
to kill the lamb is to probably go back to 8 PIT when the
Lamb is resting there (2-in-6 of the time) and kill it with fire
and sharp things while it struggles to climb out. I consider
this a satisfying conclusion for the Lamb.
If the party insists on fighting the Lamb in the cistern, I
recommend running it with a battlemap. You'll probably
have as many as 3 groups of people paddling or swimming.
There are plenty of ways to kill the Lamb in this
environment, possibly using a combination of harpoons,
hooked nets, ropes, and burning oil.
If they try to go fishing for the Lamb, using the hook hand
and some acceptable bait, let it work automatically the first
time.
If they manage to get the Lamb ensnared in the noria, allow
the Lamb to be dragged along with the waterwheel and
crushed against the slotted ceiling. (You can expect a swift
and forceful response from the White Temple when their
godling is viscerally ejected into their drinking fountain).
45 BARRELS
16 barrels containing water. They are stamped with the
insignia of the White Temple.
A rowboat containing 2 flasks of oil. 1 person can row it 20'
per round.
Stairs ascend to a locked steel door. (Behind it is the White
Temple's kitchen cellar.) No one will answer you knock.
46 DAYLIGHT
Barely-submerged rubble. Made from broken stairs.
There is space for 1 man to stand.
Stone stairs, 20' in the air.
Reaching the stairs requires either a successful attempt
with a grappling hook (Attack roll vs AC 15) or climbing the
slick walls (two Movement checks, one for every 10'). The
lamb can climb these walls as fast as a human can.
The stairs go up 60' to a wooden trapdoor, which leads to
46A TRUMPET (not on map).
41

46A STATUE (not shown on map)
A circular room, 30' in diameter.
A statue of Vandoh. It can be toppled to block the trap
door.
Two steel doors (locked).
Stairs go up 40' to 46B FREEDOM.
46B TOWER (not shown on map)
The top of one of the White Temple's towers.
A trumpet.
The ground—and your freedom—is 40' below you.
Escaping the dungeon is a Milestone.
